hey guys welcome to new wood in this
computer vision tutorial in this video
here we're going to do face detection
with media pipe
so in the last video i gave you a short
introduction to the media pipe module
that we're going to use
for some optimized deep learning and
computer vision so we can both run face
detection phase meshes
different kind of post estimations and
stuff like that but first of all
remember to join the discord server i'll
link to it down in the description here
and you come join the channel here chat
with us about computer vision deep
learning and so on you can also become a
member of the channel here if you want
to support the channel even more than
you're currently doing with a small
monthly fee
and everything will go to create more
and better quality content here on the
channel
so thank you guys so also visit the code
here and i'm going to show you like step
by step how we can actually like set up
this media pipe module here and how we
can use some of the different kind of
built-in
methods that they have in this module
here so we can actually like do face
detections
we can get the boundary box we can get
the confidence score of the face
detection
uh that we're currently like detecting
in the frame then we're going to set it
up we have some different kind of
threshold if we want to like
have like over some certainty before
reassuring showing it as
a phase that we're detecting and stuff
like that and we're going to see like
how we can actually get the boundary
boundary box how we can get the
confidence score of these different kind
of face detections
uh that we're going to do with this
media pi module here first of all we
need to install media pipe
uh with just like a pivot stall and in
the terminal
and then we can just import opencv here
so we're both going to
use opencv together with media pipe here
so we're going to use
opencv to actually like load in the
image from the webcam we're going to
uh use mediapipe to do the actual face
detection so we're going to do
or like we're going to pass the image
from ohm's v to the face detector with
media pipe and then we're going to
convert it back and then we're actually
going to
to draw on the image with opencv and
also going to show the image at the end
with opencv so first of all we need to
import these two different kind of
modules here so we have opencv
opencv and we have mediapipe as mp so
when we're going to use this
module here for mediapi we're just going
to use mp
dot and then the the classes and the
methods that we're going to use
we're also going to import time here
because we're going to to track like how
long these different kind of methods
or like how how fast this this phase
detection here is running so we can
actually get the fps out in the end so
we can see
how fast this is running because this
module here or like this framework here
is really optimized for
like common hardware so we can run this
face detector here and
all the different kind of machine
learning solutions they have on common
hardware and we can have really high
frames per second as you're going to see
at the end of this video here so first
of all here we're going to read in the
video capture here from the webcam and
i'm just going to
choose the first webcam here that i have
and then we have stored the capture in
this
cab variable here to the left then we
can go down here and actually
use the fake face detector from meteor
pipe so
first of all here we need to import or
like we need to set up a phase detector
and the drawing from from these machine
learning solutions
that we have from media pipe so first of
all here we're going to have this mp
face detector here
and we have this page detector here and
we set that equal to we know we have
media pipe here as
mp and then we have dot solutions
so inside this solution module here we
can actually get both the face detection
the draw utility or draw face meshes and
all the other different kind of machine
learning solutions that we have
and that i showed you um in on the
website in the last video where we have
had an introduction to this media pipe
framework here so we have this mp
solutions here dot uh their face
detector so we have this phase
underscore detection as we see here and
now we have like created this
face detector here that we can then run
later here in the video and then
actually
use that to do the actual face
detections and draw the boundary boxes
and stuff like that so we also need some
drawing utilities so we can actually
like draw
what is going on and what we're actually
detecting in our image so we're going to
draw both of different kind of features
like the nose
eyes ears and stuff like that and also
the boundary box around the face
so we're going to have this mp here as
well and we call that we call this
drawer
set that equal to mp and again we go
into the solutions
so when we're inside the solutions we
have something called uh drawing
utility and we're just going to set this
up here
so now we actually have everything from
media pipe here that we actually need to
like initialize before we're actually
going to use it so we will have this
mp phase detector and our mp drawer so
we're going to use the phase detector to
actually detect the face and then we're
going to draw it with this
mp drawer solutions here that we just
set up here so then we're going to read
in the video capture we go down here and
see
we say like with face detector so this
face detector here
has to be like this the same name as up
here i'll just copy paste it in here
and then we can just call this face
detection here from this
from this class or like this object here
that we're just set up from this
mp media pipe solution up here then we
can set a minimum detection confidence
so this is
like the number like the percentage that
we want to be over before we're actually
like considering
uh is as a phase in the image so if
we're not really certain that
this is a phase in the image we can
actually like cut that off by
setting this threshold here to some
value so we're just trying to cut off
some of the false positives
so when we're above like for example 70
confident that this is a phase
then we're pretty certain that this is
actually like a phase that we're
detecting in the frame
so we're just going to open up data as
it does up this phase detector up here
with a minimum confidence of seventy
percent so if you're over seventy
percent
we we have we we've been we like we
think that this is a face
and we open up us up as face detection
so we're going to use face detection
here
later on because we open it up with this
then we go down here and have this while
up here
that is just running as long as we're
getting frames in from the webcam
so as long as our capture here is opened
we're just running this wolf
while loop here then we have this cap
right here so we're actually reading in
the frame or the image from our webcam
every time we run through this folder
here and then we're going to store it if
it was a success if we could
actually like load in or like read in an
image from our webcam
and then we're going to store the image
or like the actual frame here
in our image variable here that we can
use later on to do the actual like
processing of face detection and also
drawing on this image here showing it at
the end
first of all here we're just going to
set this start here so we're going to
time our code
how long it actually takes to do all of
this processing here
after we load in our image so right
after we're loading our image we're
going to start this timer here
we're going to run all the different
different kind of algorithms on our
image during the face detection
and then we're going to like uh try to
capture how long it took to do this
processing and then we can actually get
the number of frames per seconds that we
have with this algorithm
first of all here we're going to convert
our image from bgr to rgb because
obviously uses bgr when they load in the
image and when we're going to do the
processing with the media pipe
uh module they actually use rgb images
so we need to convert
the channels in our image so we're going
to do that with the cvt color function
here from opencv
we pass it in the image and we just
store it in the image here again so we
just override our image
and we convert it from pdr to rgb
then we can actually process the image
and find the actual phases so the actual
function or like methods that we're
going to cook to call from this face
detection here
and again we need to have this face
detection up here because we import it
as
face detection here so we're going to
actually just call face detection dot
process so this is the method
that will process the image and find all
the faces that you can find
in this image that we passed to this
method here we're just going to pass in
the image here that we
that we read in from our webcam and then
we're going to store the results
in this variable or like this object
over here to the left and then we can do
a lot of different kinds of things with
this results
variable here so after we have actually
like processed our image and we found
the faces that we that we can actually
track in the image
then we're going to convert our like our
image back to
our big er so we can actually display
our image in opencv and so it doesn't
really look
uh that messy with the colors and stuff
like that so we're going to convert it
back here
from rgb to bgr with this function and
then we can actually go down to
uh sort of more like cool and nice
things here where we can actually run
and do different kind of stuff with our
detections so now we have actually like
processed our image where found the
faces
and we're stored everything in this
results here so then we can actually go
down here
and if statement here and do some
different kind of things so for example
in the results here we're just going to
check if there's any detection so if
there's any detections
in our result here if we have found any
phases in our image then we can do some
different kind of stuff
down here in our if statement first of
all here we're just going to have a for
loop where we're going to run
through all the different kind of
detections that we have in our image
and then we're going to when i'm going
to run the program we will get different
kind of detections
and i will be in front of a camera here
so we'll actually like get one detection
per
image that we load in from our webcam so
first of all here we have this if
statement
we're going to have this for loop here
where we're going to have an id so we
have an
an individual id for all the different
kind of people or like faces that we're
going to track in the image
and then we're also going to have uh
just the detection here so we're both
going to have a detection
an id and a detection and then we can
actually just call this
uh new enumerate here and then we're
actually actually just going to
enumerate
uh the detections that we have from this
results up here so we're going to
just copy paste this here and pass it
into here so we're just going to
enumerate
or like we're going to have a for loop
running through all of the different
kind of detections that we have and
we will give it an id and we're going to
have the detections
where we can get the actual boundary
boxes from as well here so we're going
to have this fold up here
and then if we want to just draw the
bounding box around the face
that we have detected with media pipe
here we can actually just go down here
and we can just call our
mp drawer and then from mp drawer here
we can actually have
a method here they called drawer
detection so we'll have this method here
that we can call
and then we're just going to say we're
going to we want to draw it
on the image that we that we just loaded
in from our from a webcam and we
converted it back to big
rgb here from bdr so we can actually
draw directly on this image here and
show it later on with the m show here in
opencv
so we're going to have this image here
that we want to actually like draw on
and then we also want to like give it to
the detection that we want to draw
so we're going to to have this detection
here so each time we have a detection
we're just going to to draw that on our
image with this drawer detection
method here from mediapipe so this was
everything we had to do to actually like
be able to run our code have the face
detector running on our webcam so every
time we load in a frame
we do did all these different kind of
like processing steps here and then we
just have this fold up here
running through all the different kind
of detections that were detected in the
image and then we're just going to draw
the boundary box around that face so
here i'll just
hit ctrl b here and we actually run the
program
so now we can see here we get up the
webcam and we get the frame here
that we have from intro because down
here at the bottom we're just both
tracking the fps i'm as i'm going to
show you
later on as well so we can see that we
get the fps fps up here in the left
corner and we can see that we're running
like around
250 to 300 frames per second and we can
see that
the frame is not laggy at all even
though we're running actually like a
phase detector
both extracting different kind of
features in our image so we can see here
that we have some red dots for both
the eyes the ears uh the nose and the
mouth so we're tracking different kind
of features
in the face and then we're actually
combining all of those and we have this
boundary box here
drawn around our face so we can see that
we're running really high frames per
second we don't really have any laggy
frames
so this uh did like this media pipe
framework here or module
is really well optimized for running on
common hardware i'm just running on a
cpu
right now so i also wanted to show you
like what is really going on in these
detections here and what are the
different kind of features that we're
tracking and we can also actually like
get the image coordinates
of the different kind of detections that
we have and all the different kind of
features that i just showed you like
the eyes the the ears the mouth and
stuff like that and also the boundary
box
coordinates so we can actually draw them
by ourselves or do some other different
kind of things
that i'm just going to do here in a bit
so we can just go down here and we can
actually just print out the id
here so we're both going to print out
the id and this is if if we have more or
like several people in our frames
then we can actually like assign an
individual id to each of those
faces that we're tracking in the image
so we can print an id here and then we
can
actually also print the detections here
and if we're just going to do that and
we're going to run the program here as
well
then i'm going to show you like what is
actually like going on here when we're
printing out
uh the results here so we can see down
here if we go down to the bottom
we're both printing out the fps here
we're printing out an id label so in
this case here i just got assigned id 0
because
we only have one person here in the
frame we get a confidence score here so
our
our face id is actually like 97.5
certain that this is a phase that it is
tracking or like it that it has detected
in the frame we also get some different
kind of like local information that we
can access individual by just having
this
um face detection here and then our
detection
dot local data dot relative bounding box
if you want to access
in each of these individual like
coordinates here or like the boundary
box or a different kind of key points
so we both get like a format here so the
relative bounding box here
and we can just access that as i just
said with like um
with a dot and then we can just access
each of them into individual
like attributes here or individual
coordinates here in our frame
so we get an x min here and we get x x a
y min here with a width and height
so this is the actual bounding box in
the image so we want to get these
different kind of features here we can
actually just go in
get these uh get these ones here and
they actually like scaled from
zero to zero to one so we actually need
to go in and convert that back
uh to the actual width and height of our
image as well
so these are just like normalized
coordinates here so we can use that
later on as i'm going to show you
we also get some relative key points
here for all the different kind of
features so these are the red dots
that i showed you when we ran the
program so we get all these different
kind of coordinates here
that we can go in an individual do
different kind of stuff with
so this drawer detection function here
it just draws all of these different
kind of like coordinates and all this
information here on the frame
but if you want to do something
customized or something like that we can
also go in
get each of the individual like uh
coordinates here
in the faces so now i'm going to show
how we can actually access each of these
individual
image coordinates here that we're
actually like detecting both for the
boundary box and also the other
different kind of features
that were tracking in the face so if we
go down here we can actually like
access each of these individual
coordinates here as i just told you with
this top operator
so we go down here and we create a
boundary box here in this variable
and then we just set that equal to the
individual detection so the detection
that we're actually detecting in our
frame
and then we can call this dot here and
then we can actually get this
location data down here and then we can
access the relative boundary box
um as this format down here so we can
just have this
detection dot and then we can have
location
and then underscore data and then we can
actually like access the relative
bounding box by just having another dot
here
and then we can just type in relative
relative
bounding box i mean
bounding box so we can actually like
access the bounding box uh like this
here so
now when we're actually running his
program we will store the whole founding
box
in this beatbox variable here and then
we can do another different kind of
stuff
with that where we're going to draw the
confidence score on top of that mounting
box
that we're detecting in our frame so if
we go down here and we can actually
create a new boundary box here so first
of all we need to get the image shape
because we know that these values here
is actually like normalized so we have
values between 0 and 1
and we need to rescale that back for our
image dimensions
so first of all here we're going to have
our height and we're going to have a
width
and we're also going to have to see here
because this is the number of channels
that we have
in our in our image we're going to set
that equal to our image
image.shape so we can like we can
actually get the image dimension
by just calling this image.shape we're
going to store the height and the width
in these variables that we're going to
do to use to actually rescale our values
back so we can actually
draw our our actual like boundary boxes
on our image frame
then we go down here and we i can
actually just put in uh
the text here or we're going to actually
like draw like create a new boundary box
with our new scaled coordinates back
again and then later on we can actually
just
put that text or like we can directly
just draw
uh the confidence score on top of that
boundary box that we now have stored
in this b box variable here so we're
going to kind of create this new
uh bounding box here and we're going to
set that equal to
the integer of b box here so we're going
to have this b box here and we're going
to take the x min value
so this is the corner or like the corner
of the
the actual like bounding box that we're
detecting in the frame and then we're
going to scale that
with the width here in this example here
so we can actually just scale that back
here
then we're going to have another here
where we're going to have this uh comma
here so we're going to
up the new line we're going to have the
comma here and then we're going to take
the integer
of the ymin as well and then we're going
to multiply that
with the height so we're both scaling
the both the width and the height
dimension for our boundary box here
because we have these normalized values
so we're going to have this boundary box
here dot ymin so again we're just
accessing each of the individual
coordinates
by this dot operator here on this object
here
so we can actually just have this x y
i'm in here and then we're going to
multiply that
by the height here of our image frame
then we're going to have this for both
the width and the height so now we're
both
now we have to like actually have one of
the corners of our boundary box and then
we're going to like
spread that out with the width and the
height that we're actually detecting
with that with that boundary box here as
well
so i'm just going to type this out here
so we're going to just going to take the
engineer again
by our boundary box and then we're going
to take the width
of this boundary box here and we're
going to scale it um with the width here
of our image frame here as well
and then at the end here we're just
going to do the same thing uh exact same
thing here with the height so we're just
going to take the boundary box here
again
we're going to take the height of that
boundary box and we're going to scale it
with the height
of our image frame so now we actually
have our boundary box here
that we can then use later on to
actually toward the confidence score on
top of that boundary box
so to actually like draw that uh that
score on top of the boundary box
we're just going to use as we already
know from like when we're going to draw
out the fps
we're just going to have um opencv's mod
like functions here or built-in method
so we can actually just put out some
text on our image frame
so we're just going to call cb2 here and
then we're going to use put text
and now we're going to specify the image
where we want to actually like toward
this text here on so this is just the
image where we're also showing our
uh detections and then we actually want
to show like what where it's like going
to draw on top of that image
so we have this uh float here that we're
going to use and we're going to actually
have
this integer here so we're just going to
take the integer of our
confidence score that we're actually
like um they're actually like printing
out down here so we get a score here
of 0.97 in this case here so we're just
going to print the score here
on top of the bounding box when we're
tracking it in our image so we can see
how confident we are
that this is actually like a face in the
image so we have this
flow value here then we're just going to
take the integer of that
uh so we're just like uh so we're just
going to take the integer of that so we
don't get
all these different kind of like decimal
points here at the end
then we're going to take the individual
detection and then we're just going to
say dot score here because we can we
know that we can just access this
score here by having this dot operator
on our detection as we can see down here
we have the score and then we can
actually get this value here
uh by using this dot operator here so
now we can actually get the score here
and we get to take the serif element or
we will get parentheses around our score
here
when we're going to print them out and
then when we actually have this
score here we're going to multiply that
by 100 so we get it in percentage
instead of this a decimal point uh like
these decimal points here
um instead and then at the end here
before we're actually like just going
out here we're just going to have this
percentage
um we're just going to have this
percentage symbol here so we can
actually see
the percentage when we're actually like
tracking the images or like the faces in
our image
then here after we have actually
specified what we want to draw or like
we want what we want to put
on that image we're going to we're going
to specify the boundary box so where
in the image we want to put that text so
i'm just going to type this out here so
we're going to have our boundary box
here that we created
and then we're going to take the serif
element of that and then we're also
going to take the boundary box here
boundary box here of the first element
so this is the width and the height of
our boundary box
and then we're just going to scale that
with some value here so we're not
drawing it
on exactly on top of our boundary box
but like right above it
so we can actually see what is going on
while we're tracking our
our boundary box around in the image
frame then we're also going to need to
specify like
uh what font we're going to use so we're
just going to from opencv here opencv
dot
font and we're just going to type in
font here and we're just going to use
this hersley simplex
that it comes up with here as default
and then at the end here
we need to specify the size of the text
that we're going to it's to show out
we're going to specify the color of the
text so in this case here we're just
going to use
uh green the green color to show out the
actual confidence score
and then at the end here we actually
also just have some scaling values
um i'm actually just going to just to
use that as
1.5 here instead so it doesn't get too
bold in our image frame
so now wait till you have all the
different kind of information that we
want to actually like
both draw our boundary box we want to
detect the faces in our image so we can
do all these different kind of things
here with these like
few lines of code here so we're just
going to use the face detector from
media pipe we're going to use omsv to
both like
put out some text on the image drawer
like the the bounding box converted back
and forth
between bdr and rgb color space
so but with just these lines of code
here we're actually just going to
draw the detection that we detected
we're going to get the bounding box
we're going to draw
the confidence score on top of the
monitoring box and this was everything
we had to do to actually like be able to
run
this face detector here like this very
well optimized phase detector
on common hardware and get a really high
fps down here at the bottom we're just
going to time the fps
we're going to have the sps here which
is one over the total time so the total
time it took to do all this
pre-processing or like this processing
here
and detection off phases in the image
frame then we're going to put out the
text here the number of frames
and we're also going to uh to in show
down here sorry like showing what is
going on in
in our image frame down here at the
bottom we're just going to wait if we
hit a key on our keyboard while we're in
the image frame
or like in our window we're just going
to terminate the program here and then
we're going to release
our capture or we're going to release
our webcam here at the end of our
program
so for now we're on the program here at
the end here so this is the final
program with this media pi
face detector here so now i've hit ctrl
b and we're now running the program here
on our cpu we can now see that we get
the face detection as we
saw in the previous example where we
just had the bounding box and the
different kind of features here that
we're tracking
but now we are actually like also
tracking the boundary box here we're
storing the boundary box in our own
variable
and then we're actually drawing the
confidence score here on top of the
mounting box
as we can see here in the image frame so
now when i'm moving around here in the
image frame here
we can actually see that we get a
confidence score of up to like 96 to 97
confidence that this is actually like a
face that we're detecting
in the image frame and we can actually
like have multiple phases act like
getting detected here in the image frame
and they will each
it will assign a confidence score for
each of the individual phases that it's
tracking
it will draw the boundary box it will
draw all the different kind of features
here like the nose eyes the ears and it
will also even
assign an individual id that we can
actually use for some different kind of
things
as well in the image frame to each of
these individual
persons so that's pretty much it for
this video here guys we're been over
some really nice and cool stuff in this
video here
and this is a really well optimized face
detector here that we that you can use
it's both
uh freeze uh opens uh like open source
and free to use
so it's really nice and cool framework
module here that we can use
from media pipe it's really well
optimized and we can run it on cpu
we can even run it like on raspberries
and beta systems and stuff like that we
don't need any gpus or any optimization
we just need these few lines of code
here and we just need like a standard
cpu
to be able to run with really high
performance here on our face detector
so thank you guys for watching this
video here i meant it subscribe button
and bell notification under the video
here
and also like this video here if you
like the content and you want more in
the future
i'm currently also doing this deep
learning tutorial and computer vision
tutorial where we're talking about like
different kind of like
neural networks how we can actually
create neural networks from scratch the
basic stuff
about neural networks we're going to
create new networks from scratch as well
as a set
and we're going to train it on a data
set and then we're going to do
predictions
on data that hasn't seen before so this
media media framework here is actually
just
different kind of like computer vision
techniques together with deep learning
techniques
so running some different kind of neural
networks computer vision techniques
trying to like be able to run these
different kind of predictions here so we
pass our image through the
through deposit process function it
actually just passes in an image
through a very well optimized uh neural
network that is tracking these different
kind of features here
so this is a really nice and cool
framework and we're going to like see
all the different kind of other
examples that we have so if you're
interested in the deep learning tutorial
as well where we're
where we're talking about neural
networks convolutional neural networks
and how they work
i'll link the tutorial up here or else
on the scene next where guys bye for now
[Music]